== Blog posts about 4X games ==

Below is a list of links to searches for 4X games related blog posts. We should watch for these to see what people think about this game genre. This could give us some [[Ideas|ideas]] about what people like and what they don't like. Maybe someone has a nice idea we could use in Thousand Parsec. Using these posts we could also find people who could help us testing games and maybe even join our project. So keep an eye on these posts! If you find something interesting in the posts don't forget to add it to the [[Ideas]] or some other relevant page.

{| border="1"
|-
! !! Technorati !! Google
|-
! 4x game
| [http://technorati.com/search/%224x+game%22 link] - [http://feeds.technorati.com/search/%224x+game%22 feed] || [http://blogsearch.google.com/blogsearch?hl=en&q=%224x+game%22&ie=UTF-8&scoring=d link] - [http://blogsearch.google.com/blogsearch_feeds?hl=en&scoring=d&q=%224x+game%22&ie=utf-8&num=10&output=atom feed]
|-
! 4x games
| [http://technorati.com/search/%224x+games%22 link] - [http://feeds.technorati.com/search/%224x+games%22 feed] || [http://blogsearch.google.com/blogsearch?hl=en&q=%224x+games%22&ie=UTF-8&scoring=d link] - [http://blogsearch.google.com/blogsearch_feeds?hl=en&scoring=d&q=%224x+games%22&ie=utf-8&num=10&output=atom feed]
|-
! 4x strategy
| [http://technorati.com/search/%224x+strategy%22 link] - [http://feeds.technorati.com/search/%224x+strategy%22 feed] || [http://blogsearch.google.com/blogsearch?hl=en&q=%224x+strategy%22&ie=UTF-8&scoring=d link] - [http://blogsearch.google.com/blogsearch_feeds?hl=en&scoring=d&q=%224x+strategy%22&ie=utf-8&num=10&output=atom feed]
|-
! 4x space
| [http://technorati.com/search/%224x+space%22 link] - [http://feeds.technorati.com/search/%224x+space%22 feed] || [http://blogsearch.google.com/blogsearch?hl=en&q=%224x+space%22&ie=UTF-8&scoring=d link] - [http://blogsearch.google.com/blogsearch_feeds?hl=en&scoring=d&q=%224x+space%22&ie=utf-8&num=10&output=atom feed]
|-
! thousand parsec
| [http://technorati.com/search/%22thousand+parsec%22 link] - [http://feeds.technorati.com/search/%22thousand+parsec%22 feed] || [http://blogsearch.google.com/blogsearch?hl=en&q=%22thousand+parsec%22&ie=UTF-8&scoring=d link] - [http://blogsearch.google.com/blogsearch_feeds?hl=en&scoring=d&q=%22thousand+parsec%22&ie=utf-8&num=10&output=atom feed]
|}

== Interesting posts ==

(2007-05-08) [http://selfdeprecatingjournalism.blogspot.com/2007/05/galactic-civilisation-2-war-report-and.html Galactic Civilisation 2 War Report and 4X Game Issues] - Talks about problems with managing large empires and how AI has advantage here. It has a nice idea about how user could build fleets more easily and it tells a bit how Galactic Civilisation II has build queues sorted out. At the end there are some videos embedded, which show how Galactic Civilisations II team was debugging AI.

(2007-07-27)
[http://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/1535/designing_ai_algorithms_for_.php Designing AI Algorithms For Turn-Based Strategy Games] - How to make the AI's attack and defense strategy to appear intelligent and thought out, providing a challenge but letting the player win in the end. Examples are based on a 4X game.

(2007-12-11) [http://www.escapistmagazine.com/forums/read/18.51990#359048 Multiple research fields at once] - In '''Master of Orion''' (the original) you didn't just research one technology at a time like in other 4X games. Instead, you set your general science slider, then you set sliders in each of six sub-categories (like Computers, Planet Ecology, Ship Drives, etc.)

:This is present in the Space Empires series as well. --[[User:Lee Begg|Lee Begg]] 03:36, 11 December 2007 (EST)