A consistent and unique set of art is useful for many games.  Multiple sets are even more useful.  This is a quick list of artwork for MTSec.  I've added a few ideas for basic concepts for a lot of the art.  Note is is
purely a suggestion, however a consistent style allows users to quickly identify the different visual elements.

== Resources ==

; Uranium
: Dull Grey metal (when oxidizes).

; Thorium
:Silvery white metal.

; Cerium
:Silvery Metal.

; Enriched Uranium
:Yellow (think yellowcake - it is really dull gray in it's pure form).

; Massivium
:(Fictional) Blue.

; Antiparticle
:Green (probably in containment field)

; Antimatter
:Purple (also in some containment field).


== Ships ==

; Scout
:Small and fast.

; Battle Scout
:As scout, but a with obvious weapon mount.

; Advanced Battle Scout
:A sleeker version of above.

; Frigate
:Small fast ship.

; Battle Frigate
:Armed version of above.

; Destroyer
:Nice balance of weapons to design.

; Battle Destroyer
:Heavily armed Destroyer

; Battleship
:Lots of weapons and armor - big

; Dreadnought
:Big, scary, nasty... largest 'ship'.  Armed to the teeth.

; Argonaut
:Space Station


== Missiles ==

Missiles are meant to be fast, and hard to avoid.  As the missile gets larger it should have an obviously larger payload.  A marking of the appropriate type should be present on each.

; Alpha (&alpha;/&Alpha;)
; Beta (&beta;/&Beta;)
; Gamma (&gamma;/&Gamma;)
; Delta (&delta;/&Delta;)
; Epsilon (&epsilon;/&Epsilon;)

== Torpedoes ==

Torps should have a distinct style to missiles, for instance a lack of fins in comparison, or a distinctly different color and shape.  Obviously the payload and size of the torp gets larger as they go up.

; Omega (&omega;/&Omega;)
; Upsilon (&upsilon;/&Upsilon;)
; Tau (&tau;/&Tau;)
; Sigma (&sigma;/&Sigma;)
; Rho (&rho;/&Rho;)
; Xi (&xi;/&Xi;)

== Components ==

; Launch Tube
:One of 12 varieties - one for each missile &amp; torp. Should contain a marking for appropriate weapon type.

; Missile Rack
:Six types.  Each holds 2 missiles.  Type of missile should be shown.

; Torpedo Rack
:Surprisingly, there are 6 types.  Each holds 2 torps. Type of torpedo should be shown.

; Armor
:Armor plating.

; Colonization Module
:A clearly large unit containing everything necessary to set up civilization.