This is a proposal for the new layout for the Thousand Parsec website. Thousand Parsec has grown significantly since the initial time the website was designed.

The website will use fly out menu's for the section but will be still be able to get to all pages without using them (just a few more clicks).

So the buttons across the top would be:
* Getting Started
* News
* Playing Games
* Running Games (maybe Hosting Games?)
* Utilities
* Different Games
* Communicate
* Links
* Developing (maybe Contributing?)

Initial starting page would be the News page, it would have a similar banner across the top to the current one,
 Don't know what Thousand Parsec is or want more information? Start Here

:''(Which page will be the default? Can we have one that actually says what TP is? --[[User:Lee Begg|Lee Begg]] 07:45, 8 July 2007 (EDT))''
::''(The screenshot page is the page people go to first, maybe we need to put it up at top too? --[[User:Mithro|Mithro]])''
::''(I think we need more than that on the default page, at least getting the main points (4x, framework, open source, etc). That banner would be fine for the screenshots page though. --[[User:Lee Begg|Lee Begg]] 08:39, 8 July 2007 (EDT))''
::''(There are two types of people entering the website, new users and current users. New users only need to read the 'About' once. Hence the 'default' page should target current users. The default page needs to keep people interested and show new users that the project is active. --[[User:Mithro|Mithro]])''
::''(I think the news page should be the default, but there should be a short (one sentence or two) mission statement, description at the very top, right above news --[[User:JLP|JLP]] 13:28, 8 July 2007 (EDT))''

:''(Why Contributor instead of Developer: I think that the word developer for many people directly means programmer. But there are more ways in which you can contribute - making artwork, translations, bug reports, user support... And I think that the word contributor better represents different stuff you can do. --[[User:JLP|JLP]] 13:28, 8 July 2007 (EDT))''

:''(Maybe some ideas from the book [http://producingoss.com/en/ Producing Open Source Software] can help us. For example from the [http://producingoss.com/en/getting-started.html Getting Started] chapter. --[[User:JLP|JLP]] 13:36, 8 July 2007 (EDT))''

== Full Site Map ==

* Getting Started
*: Section covers similar to http://www.thousandparsec.net/tp/gettingstarted.php included from the subsections.
** About
*: About Thousand Parsec, mission statement, etc
** FAQ
*: Included via the wiki.
----
* News
*: Same as the current news page.
----
* Playing Games (Clients)
*: Top page has a quick description of each client.
*: Includes the feature matrix.
*:
** Running Games (Metaserver)
** Screenshots
**: Included from various subsections.
** Download 
**: Included from various subsections.
** tpclient-pywx
*** Getting Started
*** Screenshots
*** Download
** galaxie
*** Getting Started
*** Screenshots
*** Download
** parsek
*** Getting Started
*** Screenshots
*** Download
** tpclient-pyweb
*** Getting Started
*** Screenshots
*** Download
----
* Running Games (Servers)
*: Top page has a quick description of each server.
*: Includes the feature matrix.
*:
** tpserver-py
*** Getting Started
*** Download
** tpserver-cpp
*** Getting Started
*** Download
----
* Utilities
** tpsai-py
** tpruledev
----
* Different Games (Rulesets)
** MiniSec
** MTSec
** RFTS Clone
** TIM Trader
** Creating your own
----
* Communicate (can you think of a better name?)
** IRC
*** Connection details?
*** Logs
** Mailing List
*** Archives
** Forums (some, mostly younger, people prefer forums over mailing lists)
----
* Links
*: Links to various other projects.
----
* Developing
** Code Access
*** Git Access
*** CVS gateway
*** Nightly Tarballs
*** GitWeb
** Support Libraries
*** Protocol Libraries
**** Python
**** Python (version 2)
**** C++
**** Ruby
**** PHP
*** Other Libraries
**** Python
**** libtprl
** Specifications
*** Protocol
*** File Formats
***: Describes various file formats used by Thousand Parsec
**** Protocol XML
**** Media.gz
**** BattleXML