Tpclient-pywx is a thousand parsec [[Clients|client]] which provides a 2D interface using [http://www.wxpython.org wxPython].

This page is for development information on tpclient-pywx.

== Code == 

Git repository of tpclient-pywx is located at git://git.thousandparsec.net/git/tpclient-pywx

The master branch of it contains tp03 version. The version of client for communication through TP04 protocol is placed on 'tp04' branch.

== Requirements ==

* python - an interpreter and language libraries.
* wxPython - GUI platform.
* [[Libtpclient Help|libtpclient-py]] - a library, providing high-level client services to tpclient-pywx. Is not wx-specific.
* libtpproto-py - a library for talking with TP server on tp04 protocol.

== Development tools==

Tpclient-pywx uses [http://wiki.wxwidgets.org/Resource_Files wx resource files] for GUI building. A customized xrced (the 'xrced' executable script in tpclient-pywx) is used to view and edit them. 

== Setting client-pywx up ==

* [[Ubuntu Setup|Setting up on Ubuntu]]
* [[Win Setup|Setting up on Windows]]
* [[Mac Setup|Setting up on Mac]]

== Architecture ==

The startup script file ./tpclient-pywx defines application (a descendant of libtpclient's Application) as a container of several threads: gui, network, media, finder, cache. 

'''TODO''': ''describe threads' classes and general functions.''

=== GUI architecture ===

GUI thread is implemented by class 'GUI' (a child of wx.App) which is responsible for GUI display and event handling. GUI class instantiates main windows ('win-' prefix for class name): the splash window (winSplash.py), the connection window (winConnect.py), the server lookup window(winServerBrowser) and, among others, the game main window. All  windows except game window are created on startup and shown/hidden when needed. 

Game window consists of a number of panels (see classes with 'panel-' prefix).

'''TODO''': ''describe all main windows and all panels.''

Both win- and panel- GUIs are marked up using XRCs in ./windows/xrc and in the same dir there is auto-generated python class for each of them. The window classes themselves are placed in ./windows and panel classes - in ./windows/main. Thus, for any X = <main window name>: winX has an xrc file in ./windows/xrc/winX.xrc, automatically generated class winX in ./windows/xrc/winX.py, and hand-written implementation class winX (descendant of xrc.winX) in ./windows/winX.py.
 
== Usage ==

* Place a NOSPLASHMOVIE file into tpclient-pywx top level to disable splash movie.
* You can set default connection settings with command line arguments: 	./tpclient-pywx tp://<username>:<password>@<server>/<game>

== Languages ==

This client is i18nalized using [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_gettext GNU Gettext] library. Currently it is translated into Slovenian (see ./locale/sl).

== Authors ==

The main author and maintainer of this client is [mailto:mithro@mithis.com Tim 'mithro' Ansell].

This client has been in development during [http://greywhind.wordpress.com/2009/08/19/gsoc-2009-final-report/ GSOC'09] by Greywhind and during [[Google Summer of Code/Proposals2010/bisc proposal | GSOC'10]] by [mailto:ruchkin.ivan@gmail.com bisc]